Robert Turro was born April 19th 2000 in Pequannock Township, New Jersey. He is the youngest of three children, having two older sisters, and is the son of a high school gym teacher and a nurse. 

Robert grew up in the quit rural town of Wantage, New Jersey, which is located in the very northern part of the state. 

As a child, Robert loved to play sports and began playing organized sports starting when he was five. The first sports he began to play were baseball and football and fell in love with them immediately. When Robert was seven he was introduced to another sport that would come to play a large part in his life, wrestling. Where he grew up, wrestling was surprisingly the most popular sport in town. The local high school at the time was a nationally ranked program and would draw hundreds of people to each match. Robert remembers attending these matches as a very young child and seeing how exciting they were, influencing him to sign up for the sport himself when he was in first grade. All throughout his childhood and up until high school Robert dedicated all his time and energy into these sports. They taught him how to compete, how to be disciplined and maintain a work ethic. They taught him how to handle loss and how to persevere in the face of adversity.

While Robert was a stellar athlete, it also happens that he was a great student as well. He was always ranked in the top 15 of his graduating class throughout high school and exceled at most subjects. He loved to read and write and growing up would even write stories for his classmates. He loved history and learning about how things came to be. He loved science and astronomy and was always fascinated by outer space. He loved math and statistics and how they explained the physical world. Given his diverse interests, Robert decided to not declare a major his first year of college and continue to try different things until he figured out what he wanted to devote his life to.

Robert attended Rutgers University - New Brunswick in New Brunswick New Jersey. His first semester freshman year he would take a variety of classes to try and determine what path he wanted to go. One of the classes that he took was an economics class. Robert remembers being very fascinated by economics and how key elements of our economy follow determined mathematical relationships, such as the relationship between interest rates can affect economic growth. After his freshman year Robert decided to major in economics, but it was not until his sophomore year that he would find his passion. One of the required economics classes at Rutgers was a class called econometrics. This class was an advanced statistics class that introduced linear regression. Robert remembers being in awe of linear regression and how past data can be used to mathematically predict the future. This led Robert to desire to learn more about machine learning models.